README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/top/surveykit-logo.png" width="500">
</p>

# SurveyKit: Create beautiful surveys on Android (inspired by ResearchKit Surveys on iOS)

Do you want to display a questionnaire to get the opinion of your users? A survey for a medical trial? A series of instructions in a manual-like style? <br/>
SurveyKit is an Android library that allows you to create exactly that.

Thematically it is built to provide a feeling of a professional research survey. The library aims to be visually clean, lean and easily configurable.
We aim to keep the functionality close to [iOS ResearchKit Surveys](http://researchkit.org/docs/docs/Survey/CreatingSurveys.html).

This is an early version and work in progress. Do not hesitate to give feedback, ideas or improvements via an issue.

# Examples
###### Flow
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/gifs/survey-kit-demo.gif?raw=true" width="350">
</p>

###### Screenshots

| | | | | | 
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| <img src="assets/top/instruction_qbs.png?raw=true" width="200"> | <img src="assets/top/how_old_are_you_with_hint.png?raw=true" width="200"> | <img src="assets/top/known_allergies_with_2_selected.png?raw=true" width="200"> | <img src="assets/top/single_choice_selection_1_selection.png?raw=true" width="200"> | <img src="assets/top/color-picker.png?raw=true" width="200"> |

## 📚 Overview: Creating Research Surveys
-   [What SurveyKit does for you](#what-surveykit-does-for-you)
-   [What SurveyKit does not (yet) do for you](#what-surveykit-does-not-yet-do-for-you)
-   [Library Setup](#-library-setup)
    -   [Add the repository](#1-add-the-repository)
    -   [Add the dependency](#2-add-the-dependency)
-   [Usage](#-usage)
    -   [Add and find the survey in the xml](#add-and-find-the-survey-in-the-xml)
    -   [Create survey steps](#create-survey-steps)
    -   [Create a Task](#create-a-task)
    -   [Evaluate the results](#evaluate-the-results)
    -   [Configure](#style)
    -   [Start the survey](#start-the-survey)
-   [Location steps](#-location-steps)
-   [Custom steps](#-custom-steps)
-   [Comparison to ResearchKit on iOS](#vs-comparison-of-surveykit-on-android-to-researchkit-on-ios)
-   [Author](#-author)
-   [Contributing](#%EF%B8%8F-contributing)
-   [License](#-license)

## What SurveyKit does for you
-   Simplifies the creation of surveys
-   Provides rich animations and transitions out of the box (custom animations planned)
-   Build with a consistent, lean, simple style, to fit research purposes
-   Survey navigation can be linear or based on a decision tree (directed graph)
-   Gathers results and provides them in a convinient manner to the developer for further use
-   Gives you complete freedom on creating your own questions
-   Allows you to customize the style
-   Provides an API and structure that is very similar to [iOS ResearchKit Surveys](http://researchkit.org/docs/docs/Survey/CreatingSurveys.html)
-   Is used in production by Quickbird Studios

## What SurveyKit does not (yet) do for you
As stated before, this is an early version and a work in progress. We aim to extend this library until it matches the functionality of the [iOS ResearchKit Surveys](http://researchkit.org/docs/docs/Survey/CreatingSurveys.html).

# 🏃 Library Setup
> All of the available versions of SurveyKit has been moved to MavenCentral. 
## 1. Add the repository
SurveyKit is now available via MavenCentral which is normally added as part of every new Android project. However, if it is not present, you can add it as show here.
```groovy
allprojects {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
}
```

## 2. Add the dependency
`build.gradle.kts`
````kotlin
dependencies {
    implementation("com.quickbirdstudios:surveykit:1.1.0")
}
````
Find the [latest version](https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.quickbirdstudios/com.quickbirdstudios.surveykit) or [all releases](https://github.com/quickbirdstudios/SurveyKit/releases)


# 💻 Usage
## Example
A working example project can be found [HERE](example/)
### Add and Find the Survey in the XML
Add the SurveyView to your `xml` (it looks best if it fills the screen).
````xml
<com.quickbirdstudios.surveykit.survey.SurveyView
    android:id="@+id/survey_view"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent" />
````
Find the view in the `xml` and save it for further use.
```kotlin
var surveyView: SurveyView = view.findViewById(R.id.survey_view)
```

### Create survey steps
To create a step, create an instance of one of these 3 classes:
#### `InstructionStep`
```kotlin
InstructionStep(
    title = R.string.intro_title,
    text = R.string.intro_text,
    buttonText = R.string.intro_start
)
```
The `title` is the general title of the Survey you want to conduct. <br/>
The `text` is, in this case, the introduction text which should give an introduction, about what the survey is about.<br/>
The `buttonText` specifies the text of the button, which will start the survey. All of these
properties have to be resource Ids.

#### `CompletionStep`

```kotlin
CompletionStep(
    title = R.string.finish_question_title,
    text = R.string.finish_question_text,
    buttonText = R.string.finish_question_submit
)
```
The `title` is the general title of the Survey you want to conduct, same as for the `InstructionStep`. <br/>
The `text` is here should be something motivational: that the survey has been completed successfully. <br/>
The `buttonText` specifies the text of the button, which will end the survey. All of these
properties have to be resource Ids.

#### `QuestionStep`

```kotlin
QuestionStep(
    title = R.string.about_you_question_title,
    text = R.string.about_you_question_text,
    answerFormat = AnswerFormat.TextAnswerFormat(
        multipleLines = true,
        maximumLength = 100
    )
)
```
The `title` same as for the `InstructionStep` and `CompletionStep`. <br/>
The `text` the actual question you want to ask. Depending on the answer type of this, you should set the next property.<br/>
The `answerFormat` specifies the type of question (the type of answer to the question) you want to ask. Currently there these types supported:
-   `TextAnswerFormat`
-   `IntegerAnswerFormat`
-   `ScaleAnswerFormat`
-   `SingleChoiceAnswerFormat`
-   `MultipleChoiceAnswerFormat`
-   `LocationAnswerFormat`

All that's left is to collect your steps in a list.
```kotlin
val steps = listOf(step1, step2, step3, ...)
```

### Create a Task
Next you need a task. Each survey has **exactly one** task. A `Task` is used to define how the user should navigate through your `steps`. <br><br>

#### OrderedTask
```kotlin
val task = OrderedTask(steps = steps)
```
The `OrderedTask` just presents the questions in order, as they are given.

#### NavigableOrderedTask
````kotlin
val task = NavigableOrderedTask(steps = steps)
````
The `NavigableOrderedTask` allows you to specify navigation rules.<br>
There are two types of navigation rules:
<br/>
With the `DirectStepNavigationRule` you say that after this step, another specified step should follow.
```kotlin
task.setNavigationRule(
    steps[4].id,
    NavigationRule.DirectStepNavigationRule(
        destinationStepStepIdentifier = steps[6].id
    )
)
```
<br><br/>
With the `MultipleDirectionStepNavigationRule` you can specify the next step, depending on the answer of the step.
```kotlin
task.setNavigationRule(
    steps[6].id,
    NavigationRule.MultipleDirectionStepNavigationRule(
        resultToStepIdentifierMapper = { input ->
            when (input) {
                "Yes" -> steps[7].id
                "No" -> steps[0].id
                else -> null
            }
        }
    )
)
```

### Evaluate the results
When the survey is finished, you get a callback. No matter of the `FinishReason`, you always get all results gathered until now. <br/>
The `TaskResult` contains a list of `StepResult`s. The `StepResult` contains a list of `QuestionResult`s.
```kotlin
surveyView.onSurveyFinish = { taskResult: TaskResult, reason: FinishReason ->
    if (reason == FinishReason.Completed) {
        taskResult.results.forEach { stepResult ->
            Log.e("logTag", "answer ${stepResult.results.firstOrNull()}")
        }
    }
}
```

### Style
These is how you add custom styling to your survey. We'll add even more options in the future.
```kotlin
val configuration = SurveyTheme(
    themeColorDark = ContextCompat.getColor(requireContext(), R.color.cyan_dark),
    themeColor = ContextCompat.getColor(requireContext(), R.color.cyan_normal),
    textColor = ContextCompat.getColor(requireContext(), R.color.cyan_text)
)
```

### Start the survey
All that's left is to start the survey and enjoy.🎉🎊
```kotlin
surveyView.start(task, configuration)
```

# Cancel Survey dialog

When you cancel the survey, there is an option to change dialog default Strings. Must be imported from resources.

```
val configuration = SurveyTheme(
            themeColorDark = ContextCompat.getColor(this, R.color.cyan_dark),
            themeColor = ContextCompat.getColor(this, R.color.cyan_normal),
            textColor = ContextCompat.getColor(this, R.color.cyan_text),
            abortDialogConfiguration = AbortDialogConfiguration(
                title = R.string.title,
                message = R.string.message,
                neutralMessage = R.string.no,
                negativeMessage = R.string.yes
            )
        )
```

# 📍 Location steps
You need add below to your own application `AndroidManifest.xml` file to use Google Map.
```xml
  <meta-data
    android:name="com.google.android.gms.version"
    android:value="@integer/google_play_services_version" />

  <meta-data
    android:name="com.google.android.maps.v2.API_KEY"
    android:value="GOOGLE API KEY" />
```

Also need to append location permissions on `AndroidManifest.xml`. This is not required. But If you gave this permissions, map can select current location automatically.
```xml
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION" />
```


You might wanna run location question steps test or example app on this project. Need to add api keys on `local.properties` file.
```kotlin
google_sdk_key="[API_KEY]"
//if you want to use yandex address suggession on example app
yandex_sdk_key="[API_KEY]"
```

And finally you can instante location question step like below.
```kotlin
QuestionStep(
    title = "title",
    text = this.resources.getString(R.string.location_question_text),
    lifecycle = lifecycle,
    answerFormat = AnswerFormat.LocationAnswerFormat(
                    lifecycle = lifecycle,
                    //addressProvider = YandexAddressSuggestionProvider(api_key)
                )
    )
```
Default address provider is `GeocoderAddressSuggestionProvider` based on `android.location.Geocoder`.
If you want to use custom address provider. You can use `AddressSuggestionProvider` interface and make your own implements like `YandexAddressSuggestionProvider`.


# 📇 Custom steps
At some point, you might wanna define your own custom question steps. 
That could, for example, be a question which prompts the user to pick color values or even sound samples. 
These are not implemented yet but you can easily create them yourself: 

You'll need a `CustomResult` and a `CustomStep`. The Result class tells SurveyKit which data you want to save. 
```kotlin
@Parcelize
data class CustomResult(
    val customData: String,
    override val stringIdentifier: String,
    override val id: Identifier,
    override val startDate: Date,
    override var endDate: Date
) : QuestionResult, Parcelable
```
Next you'll need a CustomStep class:
```kotlin
class CustomStep : Step {
    override val isOptional: Boolean = true
    override val id: StepIdentifier = StepIdentifier()
    val tmp = id

    override fun createView(context: Context, stepResult: StepResult?): StepView {
        return object : StepView(context, id, isOptional) {

            override fun setupViews() = Unit

            val root = View.inflate(context, R.layout.example, this)

            override fun createResults(): QuestionResult =
                CustomResult(
                    root.findViewById<EditText>(R.id.input).text.toString(),
                    "stringIdentifier",
                    id,
                    Date(),
                    Date()
                )

            override fun isValidInput(): Boolean = this@CustomStep.isOptional

            override var isOptional: Boolean = this@CustomStep.isOptional
            override val id: StepIdentifier = tmp

            override fun style(surveyTheme: SurveyTheme) {
                // do styling here
            }

            init {
                root.findViewById<Button>(R.id.continue)
                    .setOnClickListener { onNextListener(createResults()) }
                root.findViewById<Button>(R.id.back)
                    .setOnClickListener { onBackListener(createResults()) }
                root.findViewById<Button>(R.id.close)
                    .setOnClickListener { onCloseListener(createResults(), FinishReason.Completed) }
                root.findViewById<Button>(R.id.skip)
                    .setOnClickListener { onSkipListener() }
                root.findViewById<EditText>(R.id.input).setText(
                    (stepResult?.results?.firstOrNull() as? CustomResult)?.customData ?: ""
                )
            }
        }
    }
}
```

# 🍏vs🤖 : Comparison of SurveyKit on Android to ResearchKit on iOS
This is an overview of which features [iOS ResearchKit Surveys](http://researchkit.org/docs/docs/Survey/CreatingSurveys.html) provides and which ones are already supported by SurveyKit on Android.
The goal is to make both libraries match in terms of their functionality.

| Steps	                    | iOS ResearchKit        | Android SurveyKit|
| :------------------------ | :---:                  | :---:	       |
| Instruction               | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Single selection          | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Multi selection           | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Boolean answer            | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Value picker              | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Image choice              | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Numeric answer            | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Time of day               | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Date selection            | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Text answer (unlimited)   | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Text answer (limited)     | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Text answer (validated)   | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Scale answer              | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Email answer              | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Location answer           | ✅                     | ✅             |

# 👤 Author
This Android library is created with ❤️ by [QuickBird Studios](https://quickbirdstudios.com/).

# ❤️ Contributing
Open an issue if you need help, if you found a bug, or if you want to discuss a feature request.

Open a PR if you want to make changes to SurveyKit.

For the moment, a mandatory requirement for a PR to be accepted is also applying [ktlint](https://ktlint.github.io/) when submitting this PR.

# 📃 License
SurveyKit is released under an MIT license. See [License](LICENSE) for more information.

Commit message:

Fixed multi and single answer

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="assets/top/surveykit-logo.png" width="500">
</p>

# WHOOP version of SurveyKit

### Purpose

This version was created to allow for surveys to be devined remotely on a sever and sent to the
client app in the form of JSON which can then be deserialized into a Kotlin object form and
presented to the user.<br>
Additionally, a "Decimal" answer format was added to allow for numeric input that includes a decimal
portion

### Build instructions

1. Set environment variable $NEXUS_RM_USERNAME and $NEXUS_RM_PASSWORD with credentials for NEXUS
1. Update artifact version in [Library.kt]
1. Run command "gradlew publishReleasePublicationToMavenRepository"
   <br>
   The resulting artifact can be found
   in [Whoop's Nexis repo](https://nexus.qa.whoop.com/#browse/search/maven=attributes.maven2.artifactId%3Dsurveykit)

## Original readme below

# SurveyKit: Create beautiful surveys on Android (inspired by ResearchKit Surveys on iOS)

Do you want to display a questionnaire to get the opinion of your users? A survey for a medical
trial? A series of instructions in a manual-like style? <br/>
SurveyKit is an Android library that allows you to create exactly that.

Thematically it is built to provide a feeling of a professional research survey. The library aims to
be visually clean, lean and easily configurable. We aim to keep the functionality close
to [iOS ResearchKit Surveys](http://researchkit.org/docs/docs/Survey/CreatingSurveys.html).

This is an early version and work in progress. Do not hesitate to give feedback, ideas or
improvements via an issue.

# Examples
###### Flow
<p align="center">
<img src="assets/gifs/survey-kit-demo.gif?raw=true" width="350">
</p>

###### Screenshots

| | | | | | 
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| <img src="assets/top/instruction_qbs.png?raw=true" width="200"> | <img src="assets/top/how_old_are_you_with_hint.png?raw=true" width="200"> | <img src="assets/top/known_allergies_with_2_selected.png?raw=true" width="200"> | <img src="assets/top/single_choice_selection_1_selection.png?raw=true" width="200"> | <img src="assets/top/color-picker.png?raw=true" width="200"> |

## 📚 Overview: Creating Research Surveys
-   [What SurveyKit does for you](#what-surveykit-does-for-you)
-   [What SurveyKit does not (yet) do for you](#what-surveykit-does-not-yet-do-for-you)
-   [Library Setup](#-library-setup)
    -   [Add the repository](#1-add-the-repository)
    -   [Add the dependency](#2-add-the-dependency)
-   [Usage](#-usage)
    -   [Add and find the survey in the xml](#add-and-find-the-survey-in-the-xml)
    -   [Create survey steps](#create-survey-steps)
    -   [Create a Task](#create-a-task)
    -   [Evaluate the results](#evaluate-the-results)
    -   [Configure](#style)
    -   [Start the survey](#start-the-survey)
-   [Location steps](#-location-steps)
-   [Custom steps](#-custom-steps)
-   [Comparison to ResearchKit on iOS](#vs-comparison-of-surveykit-on-android-to-researchkit-on-ios)
-   [Author](#-author)
-   [Contributing](#%EF%B8%8F-contributing)
-   [License](#-license)

## What SurveyKit does for you
-   Simplifies the creation of surveys
-   Provides rich animations and transitions out of the box (custom animations planned)
-   Build with a consistent, lean, simple style, to fit research purposes
-   Survey navigation can be linear or based on a decision tree (directed graph)
-   Gathers results and provides them in a convinient manner to the developer for further use
-   Gives you complete freedom on creating your own questions
-   Allows you to customize the style
-   Provides an API and structure that is very similar to [iOS ResearchKit Surveys](http://researchkit.org/docs/docs/Survey/CreatingSurveys.html)
-   Is used in production by Quickbird Studios

## What SurveyKit does not (yet) do for you
As stated before, this is an early version and a work in progress. We aim to extend this library until it matches the functionality of the [iOS ResearchKit Surveys](http://researchkit.org/docs/docs/Survey/CreatingSurveys.html).

# 🏃 Library Setup
> All of the available versions of SurveyKit has been moved to MavenCentral. 
## 1. Add the repository
SurveyKit is now available via MavenCentral which is normally added as part of every new Android project. However, if it is not present, you can add it as show here.
```groovy
allprojects {
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
}
```

## 2. Add the dependency
`build.gradle.kts`
````kotlin
dependencies {
    implementation("implementation 'com.whoop:surveykit:1.0.6")
}
````
Find the [latest version](https://search.maven.org/artifact/com.quickbirdstudios/com.quickbirdstudios.surveykit) or [all releases](https://github.com/quickbirdstudios/SurveyKit/releases)


# 💻 Usage
## Example
A working example project can be found [HERE](example/)
### Add and Find the Survey in the XML
Add the SurveyView to your `xml` (it looks best if it fills the screen).
````xml
<com.quickbirdstudios.surveykit.survey.SurveyView
    android:id="@+id/survey_view"
    android:layout_width="match_parent"
    android:layout_height="match_parent" />
````
Find the view in the `xml` and save it for further use.
```kotlin
var surveyView: SurveyView = view.findViewById(R.id.survey_view)
```

### Create survey steps
To create a step, create an instance of one of these 3 classes:
#### `InstructionStep`
```kotlin
InstructionStep(
    title = R.string.intro_title,
    text = R.string.intro_text,
    buttonText = R.string.intro_start
)
```
The `title` is the general title of the Survey you want to conduct. <br/>
The `text` is, in this case, the introduction text which should give an introduction, about what the survey is about.<br/>
The `buttonText` specifies the text of the button, which will start the survey. All of these
properties have to be resource Ids.

#### `CompletionStep`

```kotlin
CompletionStep(
    title = R.string.finish_question_title,
    text = R.string.finish_question_text,
    buttonText = R.string.finish_question_submit
)
```
The `title` is the general title of the Survey you want to conduct, same as for the `InstructionStep`. <br/>
The `text` is here should be something motivational: that the survey has been completed successfully. <br/>
The `buttonText` specifies the text of the button, which will end the survey. All of these
properties have to be resource Ids.

#### `QuestionStep`

```kotlin
QuestionStep(
    title = R.string.about_you_question_title,
    text = R.string.about_you_question_text,
    answerFormat = AnswerFormat.TextAnswerFormat(
        multipleLines = true,
        maximumLength = 100
    )
)
```
The `title` same as for the `InstructionStep` and `CompletionStep`. <br/>
The `text` the actual question you want to ask. Depending on the answer type of this, you should set the next property.<br/>
The `answerFormat` specifies the type of question (the type of answer to the question) you want to ask. Currently there these types supported:
-   `TextAnswerFormat`
-   `IntegerAnswerFormat`
-   `ScaleAnswerFormat`
-   `SingleChoiceAnswerFormat`
-   `MultipleChoiceAnswerFormat`
-   `LocationAnswerFormat`

All that's left is to collect your steps in a list.
```kotlin
val steps = listOf(step1, step2, step3, ...)
```

### Create a Task
Next you need a task. Each survey has **exactly one** task. A `Task` is used to define how the user should navigate through your `steps`. <br><br>

#### OrderedTask
```kotlin
val task = OrderedTask(steps = steps)
```
The `OrderedTask` just presents the questions in order, as they are given.

#### NavigableOrderedTask
````kotlin
val task = NavigableOrderedTask(steps = steps)
````
The `NavigableOrderedTask` allows you to specify navigation rules.<br>
There are two types of navigation rules:
<br/>
With the `DirectStepNavigationRule` you say that after this step, another specified step should follow.
```kotlin
task.setNavigationRule(
    steps[4].id,
    NavigationRule.DirectStepNavigationRule(
        destinationStepStepIdentifier = steps[6].id
    )
)
```
<br><br/>
With the `MultipleDirectionStepNavigationRule` you can specify the next step, depending on the answer of the step.
```kotlin
task.setNavigationRule(
    steps[6].id,
    NavigationRule.MultipleDirectionStepNavigationRule(
        resultToStepIdentifierMapper = { input ->
            when (input) {
                "Yes" -> steps[7].id
                "No" -> steps[0].id
                else -> null
            }
        }
    )
)
```

### Evaluate the results
When the survey is finished, you get a callback. No matter of the `FinishReason`, you always get all results gathered until now. <br/>
The `TaskResult` contains a list of `StepResult`s. The `StepResult` contains a list of `QuestionResult`s.
```kotlin
surveyView.onSurveyFinish = { taskResult: TaskResult, reason: FinishReason ->
    if (reason == FinishReason.Completed) {
        taskResult.results.forEach { stepResult ->
            Log.e("logTag", "answer ${stepResult.results.firstOrNull()}")
        }
    }
}
```

### Style
These is how you add custom styling to your survey. We'll add even more options in the future.
```kotlin
val configuration = SurveyTheme(
    themeColorDark = ContextCompat.getColor(requireContext(), R.color.cyan_dark),
    themeColor = ContextCompat.getColor(requireContext(), R.color.cyan_normal),
    textColor = ContextCompat.getColor(requireContext(), R.color.cyan_text)
)
```

### Start the survey
All that's left is to start the survey and enjoy.🎉🎊
```kotlin
surveyView.start(task, configuration)
```

# Cancel Survey dialog

When you cancel the survey, there is an option to change dialog default Strings. Must be imported from resources.

```
val configuration = SurveyTheme(
            themeColorDark = ContextCompat.getColor(this, R.color.cyan_dark),
            themeColor = ContextCompat.getColor(this, R.color.cyan_normal),
            textColor = ContextCompat.getColor(this, R.color.cyan_text),
            abortDialogConfiguration = AbortDialogConfiguration(
                title = R.string.title,
                message = R.string.message,
                neutralMessage = R.string.no,
                negativeMessage = R.string.yes
            )
        )
```

# 📍 Location steps
You need add below to your own application `AndroidManifest.xml` file to use Google Map.
```xml
  <meta-data
    android:name="com.google.android.gms.version"
    android:value="@integer/google_play_services_version" />

  <meta-data
    android:name="com.google.android.maps.v2.API_KEY"
    android:value="GOOGLE API KEY" />
```

Also need to append location permissions on `AndroidManifest.xml`. This is not required. But If you gave this permissions, map can select current location automatically.
```xml
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION" />
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION" />
```


You might wanna run location question steps test or example app on this project. Need to add api keys on `local.properties` file.
```kotlin
google_sdk_key="[API_KEY]"
//if you want to use yandex address suggession on example app
yandex_sdk_key="[API_KEY]"
```

And finally you can instante location question step like below.
```kotlin
QuestionStep(
    title = "title",
    text = this.resources.getString(R.string.location_question_text),
    lifecycle = lifecycle,
    answerFormat = AnswerFormat.LocationAnswerFormat(
                    lifecycle = lifecycle,
                    //addressProvider = YandexAddressSuggestionProvider(api_key)
                )
    )
```
Default address provider is `GeocoderAddressSuggestionProvider` based on `android.location.Geocoder`.
If you want to use custom address provider. You can use `AddressSuggestionProvider` interface and make your own implements like `YandexAddressSuggestionProvider`.


# 📇 Custom steps
At some point, you might wanna define your own custom question steps. 
That could, for example, be a question which prompts the user to pick color values or even sound samples. 
These are not implemented yet but you can easily create them yourself: 

You'll need a `CustomResult` and a `CustomStep`. The Result class tells SurveyKit which data you want to save. 
```kotlin
@Parcelize
data class CustomResult(
    val customData: String,
    override val stringIdentifier: String,
    override val id: Identifier,
    override val startDate: Date,
    override var endDate: Date
) : QuestionResult, Parcelable
```
Next you'll need a CustomStep class:
```kotlin
class CustomStep : Step {
    override val isOptional: Boolean = true
    override val id: StepIdentifier = StepIdentifier()
    val tmp = id

    override fun createView(context: Context, stepResult: StepResult?): StepView {
        return object : StepView(context, id, isOptional) {

            override fun setupViews() = Unit

            val root = View.inflate(context, R.layout.example, this)

            override fun createResults(): QuestionResult =
                CustomResult(
                    root.findViewById<EditText>(R.id.input).text.toString(),
                    "stringIdentifier",
                    id,
                    Date(),
                    Date()
                )

            override fun isValidInput(): Boolean = this@CustomStep.isOptional

            override var isOptional: Boolean = this@CustomStep.isOptional
            override val id: StepIdentifier = tmp

            override fun style(surveyTheme: SurveyTheme) {
                // do styling here
            }

            init {
                root.findViewById<Button>(R.id.continue)
                    .setOnClickListener { onNextListener(createResults()) }
                root.findViewById<Button>(R.id.back)
                    .setOnClickListener { onBackListener(createResults()) }
                root.findViewById<Button>(R.id.close)
                    .setOnClickListener { onCloseListener(createResults(), FinishReason.Completed) }
                root.findViewById<Button>(R.id.skip)
                    .setOnClickListener { onSkipListener() }
                root.findViewById<EditText>(R.id.input).setText(
                    (stepResult?.results?.firstOrNull() as? CustomResult)?.customData ?: ""
                )
            }
        }
    }
}
```

# 🍏vs🤖 : Comparison of SurveyKit on Android to ResearchKit on iOS
This is an overview of which features [iOS ResearchKit Surveys](http://researchkit.org/docs/docs/Survey/CreatingSurveys.html) provides and which ones are already supported by SurveyKit on Android.
The goal is to make both libraries match in terms of their functionality.

| Steps	                    | iOS ResearchKit        | Android SurveyKit|
| :------------------------ | :---:                  | :---:	       |
| Instruction               | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Single selection          | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Multi selection           | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Boolean answer            | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Value picker              | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Image choice              | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Numeric answer            | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Time of day               | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Date selection            | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Text answer (unlimited)   | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Text answer (limited)     | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Text answer (validated)   | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Scale answer              | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Email answer              | ✅                     | ✅             |
| Location answer           | ✅                     | ✅             |

# 👤 Author
This Android library is created with ❤️ by [QuickBird Studios](https://quickbirdstudios.com/).

# ❤️ Contributing
Open an issue if you need help, if you found a bug, or if you want to discuss a feature request.

Open a PR if you want to make changes to SurveyKit.

For the moment, a mandatory requirement for a PR to be accepted is also applying [ktlint](https://ktlint.github.io/) when submitting this PR.

# 📃 License
SurveyKit is released under an MIT license. See [License](LICENSE) for more information.
